Okay, in this demo, we're going to be creating our first CRUDRepository.
Once we've done that,
we'll use the CRUDRepository to interact with our database table.
Okay, let's start by creating a repository interface for our flight entity.
We'll create a repository package for it and then call
the repository itself FlightRepository.
Once we've done that, we make it extend from the CRUDRepository.
We'll provide two type arguments,
Flight representing the entity that it manages and Long
representing the data type of the ID of the entity.
Let's then switch back to our test and rename it CrudTests and then
delete what's there already as it's no longer needed.
We'll use our repository to save and read our flight instead now.
Okay, let's create a test named shouldPerformCRUDOperations.
We'll then wire in our FlightRepository as a dependency and
then start making use of it within our tests.
Let's first create a flight entity, populating it with some arbitrary data.
Then let's use our repository to save our flight.
Remember, all we've done is implement an interface here.
Yet now we've got all this data store agnostic capability out of the box.
We can see variations of operations for saving, deleting, finding, and more.
In our case,
let's call save to save our flight instance to a row in the flight table.
Once that's done,
we can see if it has been saved successfully by reading it
back from the database using the repository.
We can do this by first calling findAll, which will return all the rows.
As we've only saved one flight,
there will only be one row so we can assert the list has a size of 1.
We can read this first element from the list and assert all of its fields
are equal to the fields of the flight that we saved,
which they will be as they'll be the same instance of the flight.
Next, let's try deleting our flight.
Again,
this proves how Spring Data JPA is easy to work with as all we need to do is
call the preconfigured delete method on our CRUDRepository,
passing in the instance of our flight.
Afterwards,
we can verify that the deletion was successful by doing a count
query and asserting that the result is 0.
This is because we deleted the only row there is for the table.
Thus, it should be empty.
Okay, let's run our test and verify that it still passes.
It does,
which verifies that our repository allows us to interact with the database.
Hopefully this is now starting to build a picture of just how powerful Spring
Data is as all we've done is implement a single interface, yet we've got all these CRUD operations available to us out of the box.